# 0x05. Processes and signals
``DevOps`` ``Shell`` ``Bash`` ``Syscall`` ``Scripting``

---
* All bash script passes Shellcheck
---

**Resource**  
[Process management in linux](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/process-management-in-linux)  
[Get to Know Linux: The /etc/init.d Directory](https://www.ghacks.net/2009/04/04/get-to-know-linux-the-etcinitd-directory/)  

**Note**  
A PID (process identification number) is an identification number that is uniquely and automatically assigned to each process when it is created on a Unix-like OS  
A process is an executing (i.e., running) instance of a program.  
The process init is the only process that will always have the same PID (value 1). The because init is always the first process on the system and is the ancestor of all other processes.

Information on current processes is stored in the /proc filesystem, which consists of kernel data that changes in real time.

A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux sysstem in response to some condion. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.

The two type of signals:  
* **Maskable**: signals which can be changed or ignore by the user (e.g., ^C)
* **Non-Maskable**: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user.  
[signal manpage](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal.7.html)


**daemon:**
> In multitasking computer OS, a daemon is a computer program that runs as a background process, rather than being under the direct control of an interactive user.  
> Traditionally, the process names of a daemon end with the letter d, (e.g., syslogd is a daemon that implements system logging facility, and sshd is a daemon that serves incoming ssh connections.
> Systems often start daemons at boot time that will respond to network requests, hardware activity, or other programs performing some task.
> Deamons such as [cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) may also perform defined tasks at scheduled times.

## Task
| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
[0-what-is-my-pid](./0-what-is-my-pid) | displays its own PID
[1-list_your_processes](./1-list_your_processes) | displays a list of currently running processes (show all processes, for all users, which might not have a TTY)
[2-show_your_bash_pid](./2-show_your_bash_pid) | displays lines containing 'bash' hence the PID of the Bash process. (using task 1 command)
[3-show_your_bash_pid_made_easy](./3-show_your_bash_pid_made_easy) | displays the PID, along with the process name, of proccesses whose name contain the word 'bash'
[4-to_infinity_and_beyond](./4-to_infinity_and_beyond) | display 'To infinity and beyond' indefinitely' (with sleep 2 between each iteration of the loop)
[5-dont_stop_me_now](./5-dont_stop_me_now) | stops '4-to_infinity_and_beyond' process
[6-stop_me_if_you_can](./6-stop_me_if_you_can) | stops '4-to_infinity_and_beyond' process (not using kill and killall)
[67-stop_me_if_you_can](./67-stop_me_if_you_can) | kills the '7-highlander' process (not using kill and killall)
[7-highlander](./7-highlander) | displays 'To infinity and beyond' indefinitely with a sleep 2 between each iteration (I am invincible!!! when receiving a SIGTERM signal)
[8-beheaded_process](./8-beheaded_process) | kills the '7-highlander' process (not using kill and killall)
[100-process_and_pid_file](./100-process_and_pid_file) | script creates the file /var/run/myscript.pid containing its PID, then display 'To infinity and beyond' indefinitely, 'I hate the kill command' when it receives a SIGTERM, 'Y U no love me?!' when it recieves a SIGINT and delete the file created, then quit when it receives SIGQUIT|SIGTERM
[101-manage_my_process](./101-manage_my_process) | manages 'manage_my_process'
[manage_my_process](./manage_my_process) | indefinitely writes 'I am alive!' to '/tmp/my_process' with an interval of 2 sleep seconds
